FINAL_URL: https://finovate.com/trustly-raises-new-capital-to-power-the-next-era-in-open-banking/
STATUS: ok
CHARS: 3522
---CONTENT---
Trustly has secured equity commitment letters of more than $40 million from its principal shareholder, Nordic Capital, and Alfvén & Didrikson. The capital raise is expected to conclude in November.
Trustly will use the capital to fund the next stage of its growth strategy, which includes accelerating the development of new products that use AI to bring real-time intelligence to payments.
Founded in 2008 and headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, Trustly made its Finovate debut at FinovateEurope 2013.
Trustly Holding AB announced that its parent company, Trustly , has received signed equity commitment letters of more than $40 million from Nordic Capital, Trustly’s principal shareholder, and Alfvén & Didrikson, to fund a capital raise in the firm. The company will use the capital to fund the next stage of its growth strategy, accelerating the development of new products that will use AI to transform payments into intelligence that helps businesses win new customers, keep those customers longer, and manage risk better.
“Trustly is the payments network behind more than 50 million consumers and over $120 billion in transactions a year,” Trustly Group CEO Johan Tjärnberg said. “This puts Trustly in a strong position to take a leading role in shaping the new era of financial services by bringing together payment and data services and using AI to embed real-time financial intelligence. This commitment from Nordic Capital and Alfvén & Didrikson is a vote of confidence in Trustly and where we’re headed.”
In a statement, the company said that the signed commitment letters from Nordic Capital and Alfvén & Didrikson are a strong endorsement of Trustly’s strategy to build on its open banking payments network—currently spanning the US, Canada, and Europe—to create a real-time intelligence platform. Trustly sees this as the next evolution in open banking: using AI-powered real-time intelligence to move beyond merely moving money inexpensively toward a world in which each interaction is smarter than the last. This strategy also underscores the company’s determination to defend itself against competition from traditional card networks and account-to-account (A2A) payment providers by providing insights at the point of sale.
The investment is expected to conclude in November 2026, at which point the final amount of the capital raise will be announced. Trustly’s other current shareholders will also be offered the opportunity to participate in the funding.
“Nordic Capital has backed Trustly since 2018, supporting its development of the largest open banking payments networks in Europe and North America,” said Fredrik Näslund, Partner and Head of Technology & Payments for Nordic Capital Advisors. “This commitment reflects a strong confidence in the business and its strategy.”
Founded in 2008 and headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, Trustly made its Finovate debut at FinovateEurope 2013. Today, the company is an open banking payment solutions provider offering a platform that helps ensure that transactions are processed quickly, securely, and in real time. With partners including PayPal , eBay, T-Mobile, and Coinbase , Trustly enhances the payment experience for more than 9,000 merchants in more than 30 markets, connecting them to 650+ million consumers through 12,000 banks. The company’s Pay by Bank offering helps companies boost customer lifetime value via better conversions, higher approvals, deeper consumer insights, and lower costs compared to cards.
Photo by Hakan Tas from Pexels
