FINAL_URL: https://finovate.com/stripe-to-power-constructors-agentic-checkout/
STATUS: ok
CHARS: 3738
---CONTENT---
Constructor partnered with Stripe to launch Agentic Checkout , enabling shoppers and AI agents to move from product discovery to purchase within a single AI-powered shopping experience.
The tool integrates Stripe’s payments infrastructure with Constructor’s AI Shopping Agent , allowing customers to pay via Link by Stripe or other payment methods without leaving the agent experience.
The launch helps close a key gap in agentic commerce by bringing discovery and checkout together, allowing AI to support more of the shopping journey from product search and recommendations through payment.
Product discovery platform Constructor has partnered with Stripe to launch Agentic Checkout , an agentic commerce tool available to retailers that enables both human and agent shoppers to find and buy products via the Link by Stripe digital wallet or other payment methods all within a single location.
Constructor’s Agentic Checkout is available to retailers within Constructor’s AI Shopping Agent, a tool that helps shoppers interact with a shopping agent using natural language. The company uses two of its existing tools, Commerce Reasoning Engine and AI Product Insights Agent, to power the new platform. The former helps agents learn from the shopper’s behavior across channels to provide more relevant product recommendations, while the latter answers product-specific questions directly on product detail pages.
“The promise of agentic commerce is that a shopper can express what they need and AI can help them every step of the way, making every part of the journey easier, more helpful, and more enjoyable,” said Constructor CEO and Co-founder Eli Finkelshteyn. “Delivering on that promise requires best-in-class discovery and then best-in-class checkout. Constructor has spent years focused on improving the discovery experience and helping shoppers find the right products, while Stripe has built world-class payments infrastructure that helps shoppers buy those products easily and securely. Together, we’re making agentic shopping more complete for consumers and more valuable for retailers.”
Founded in 2015, Constructor helps retailers deliver the right product to the right person in the right context at the right time for brands including Sephora, Petco, The Very Group, home24, Grove Collaborative, and Fisheries Supply. Constructor reports that, over the past year, the number of companies deploying the company’s AI agents has increased by tenfold.
Constructor likely chose Stripe because it is already used by many businesses and consumers. More than five million businesses run on Stripe, while more than 250 million end customers have set up Stripe’s digital wallet, Link by Stripe, to make payments. Connecting Constructor and Stripe also offers a relatively low-friction path for retailers already using both platforms. Existing Constructor customers can add Stripe-powered checkout by updating Constructor’s UI library and adding their Stripe credentials, while retailers that don’t currently use Stripe can enable Agentic Checkout without changing their existing payment setup elsewhere.
The launch also addresses one of the remaining gaps in agentic commerce. While AI shopping agents have become increasingly capable of helping consumers discover and evaluate products, shoppers have generally had to leave the agent experience to complete a purchase. Bringing checkout into the same platform moves agentic shopping one step closer to an experience in which AI can support the entire purchasing journey, from product discovery to payment.
Later this year, Constructor plans to expand Agentic Checkout beyond the AI Shopping Agent to other parts of retailers’ digital shopping experiences.
Photo by Jan van der Wolf
